Speaking of repetitive, when I ask you to read, you can tell me what translation you would like to read it out of, and I'll pull it up on the screen if you don't want to read the New King James or don't have a.
I'm a copy of it to read.
Or don't want to read the one I have.
I call this message on change for a reason.
Because it starts a conversation about change.
Sometimes,
We see things and we don't catch what it says, but if you drop the e off of one,
it becomes on change.
On change is also one change. one change in life could change lives everywhere, depending on what that change is.
And so today we're going to start that conversation about
What change really is and what it's about.
And what?
What God has called each of us, and as a church, to be about.
The truth is
Twenty twenty five is an open slate.
In front of us.
behind us
His alleged choices and the past that we've
Gone down because of those choices in twenty twenty four and years previous.
Today
It's the day we live in.
Hopefully we can and will
Taking on an open stock and an inventory of where we are.
Ephesians two is going to guide us for several weeks.
As we do this.
Are we growing?
Individually
Or as a church.
Or are we maintaining?
Individually
Or as a church.
Or are we reducing?
Growing, maintaining or reducing.
Growth
Feels different.
And then the other two. I promise you.
Is our way forward
Clear to us to where we choose to go or to where God is leading us.
Do we know where we would like to be at the end of the year?
Individually and as a church
Have we ideas or goals for that?
Is there anything that we need to do just to maintain?
Yes, we just keep doing what we've been doing.
And faithful.
Is there anything we need to do to reduce
No.
Doing nothing helps us do that.
To grow
yes.
Many things, definitely.
But what is the first?
And most necessary thing for growth to occur
What are we to be about doing?
Now this
Start.
Well, we started.
Where'd we come from?
As individuals we came from being sinners
To members of the family of God, as Ephesians chapter two says.
as a church
It was born.
From a vision.
Many years ago,
The founders of this church saw hope.
That needed born.
In this community.
They wanted to establish a church, a place of faith.
To have a place for people to reside, worship, and grow the kingdom of God.
They had a hope.
To change lives.
From sinners to saints.
From lost to found, just like amazing grace as they sung back then,
We sing now. I once was lost, but now I'm found. we need more people to be able to sing those words in our community.
They wanted lives to change from strangers,
To family.
Family of God.
From separate,
And alone and isolated to together.
In unity and community.
From divided
To unified.
And if we look over the years, and since this church was.
Over 150 years old now.
A lot of that
That they had originally.
Hasn't happened lately.
The church has become
Divided instead of unified.
More people are separated than together.
More people are going to be strangers than family.
Not as many people found.
As there are lost,
They had a vision that people would go from being empty inside to full with the presence of God and who he is inside of them.
From lifeless,
to burning with the power of God and the Holy Spirit it was the Holy Spirit that gave the founding fathers of this church the vision to put it here
They were leaving
And others, by the way, God led them.
This
I wasn't here for.
And neither were you.
But we know this is true because it's still here in the power of God.
Over the
Decades, years, and over a century now,
And a half.
God has made sure that vision.
Was still able to be followed
But the reality is, since then, the world has changed dramatically.
They would not recognize this world. they did not have automobiles one hundred and fifty years ago.
When cars came along, the wealthy had cars and the poor had horses, and now it's the other way around.
Everybody has cars and the wealthy have horses.
Just how it worked, right? This is not the world I grew up in.
internet didn't exist.
Video games were not around yet
There were a lot of things that we take for granted that were not in our homes when I was born, and that includes a microwave oven,
And microwave popcorn
none of that was here.
and that's just when i was a kid we we had this rule you stayed you could stay out to the street lights came on.
nowadays as you don't go out without knowing where you're at every single moment so we know where you're at so you're safe.
The streets of my little town where I grew up
We're safe for us.
Parents didn't have to worry a thing down that same little town, I'm sure.
Parents are nervous.
It's a different world.
And think about that.
Because people can travel so large distances, you don't know if the crime committed in an area was from people in that area anymore.
Back in the day when this church was born,
Informed
Any crime that was committed was local.
Bye, local.
Not hard to find.
So the world is different. it's not that it's different from when you grew up as to when I grew up.
I imagine there are a lot of different things that have happened.
Since then.
as a matter of fact when i was born the first super bowl i think had just been played.
So before I was born,
Many of you
We're alive before that.
There was no supermole.
Did you know that?
As a matter of fact, the Cubs had not won the World Series in their childhood.
Or mine.
And only once in my adulthood
So there's a lot of different things that the world has changed.
Around us
And because it's changed,
We need to adjust our thinking.
And we have to do it together.
It's more imperative that we do that now than at any other time in our history.
We must seek and ask God to renew the vision.
Of the founding fathers,
And the opportunity to reconnect with the people around us.
To tear down walls.
As Ephesians two says,
To be the first to move, as Ephesians Two says in the Act of Reconciliation and Ministry.
the first.
To be the one who loves.
The first whom offers forgiveness and reconciliation.
Therefore,
For all that to happen, we must be the first.
To repent.
To be healed.
To confess
And to be willing to make one change.
And a change within.
In order to be the salt in light, we have to become salt in light.
We must be the first.
to invest
and the first to continue to invest.
The first to say yes,
The first to rededicate our lives again.
The first to join the church if we haven't, the first to be saved if we are not saved.
The first to be baptized with the holy spirit
even if we're not sure what it means or what it looks like, the first to make a different direction for our community because they don't understand
And the time runs short when you don't know Jesus. Amen.
There is not a tomorrow. It's always today.
G
Jesus tells us through Paul and Ephesians, too, that we can do all those things.
And each of those transformation things that Ephesians two talks about, talks about investing in each other and in work of reconciliation.
We're going to do this in Holy Communion today. I'm going to invite you to be a part of that, that process. it's a little different.
We're going to do that today.
together.
Here.
Now!
Confessing.
Repenting
Rededicating our lives.
Reinstating and redoubling our efforts for the Kingdom of God.
Reconciling with those
We have disengaged from.
To be the first mover, the first responder.
1. Responding to Jesus and then to the fires in the world around us. 2.
The first, the hunger and thirst for righteousness that Jesus alone provides in this soul that only he can satisfy the hungry inside of.
Why?
Why would we be the first?
Because world needs us to do this.
They won't.
They don't even know it.
What about it?
It doesn't know it yet.
But it's waiting on us to move first.
To be the change that it wants for itself.
To be the hope.
In a world trying to find comfort.
This hope is found only at the Lord's table.
All of these things that we talk about start.
In communion with Jesus Christ
And that's what we're going to do in communion today. And I'm going to ask you to do.
And so look at the sign as you come
Read the verse and say, Lord,
I want you to transform me any way you need to.
To do the work in me,
that I will be first.
I will step up to the plate as lead off hitter in this.
I'm not going to wait.
For someone else to push me, shut me,
I'm going to take the lead
We cannot change unless we choose to.
And we cannot change unless we ask God to be the change in us.
He is the change agent.
and this morning.
Rather than telling you how?
I'm going to tell you
It's simply a matter of being willing.
First,
Because if you're staying there,
at communion
Or kneel at the rail
And remain unchanged.
By the power and grace of Jesus Christ that transformed you from a saint to a
Into a mighty saint.
And starting to the center.
Into a saint first.
If you don't see that that happens through communion in the power of Jesus Christ,
And that doesn't overwhelm you and fill you with joy that he included you.
You're going to miss the joy of your salvation.
So my prayer this morning,
As it will be
This year,
Is we are willing
And asking God to take the lead for us.
I'm going to remind you of this on a regular basis
As i put in the bulletin
Love doesn't take any days off.
Was you praying with me?
Heavenly Father, sometimes
We want to think that things are going to get better because you.
I want them too.
Or because we want them to.
But you are clearly placed
The focus
The heart.
And the desire
For your kingdom to be done on earth and your will to be done on earth.
Even as it's done in heaven.
And so, Heavenly Father, I ask this morning,
That we would be desirous of that.
That we would be
Willing.
To do your will and not our own.
And to learn what that means.
Teach us, grow us, build us.
That we may do the work of your kingdom.
Heavenly Father,
That is the best work ever
May we never forget that other side of that
In the name of Jesus.
Amen.